content/eosio/public-apis/reference/websocket/req-get-transaction-lifecycle.md, before:

---
weight: 40

pageTitle: get_transaction_lifecycle
pageTitleIcon: eosio

sideNav: true
sideNavTitle: Public APIs
sideNavLinkRename: get_transaction_lifecycle

BookToC: true
release: stable

---

Retrieve a "transaction_lifecycle" (when "fetch" is true) and follow
its life-cycle (when "listen" is true).

## Usage

When following a transaction, any new block referencing that transaction
will trigger an updated version of "transaction_lifecycle" to be sent.
When one of those blocks passes irreversibility, you will also receive
an updated transaction_lifecycle object.

Example request:

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "type": "get_transaction",
  "fetch": true,
  "listen": true,
  "data": {
    "id": "da1abcf7e205cf410c35ba3d474fd8d854a7513d439f7f1188d186493253ed24"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

#### Arguments

{{< method-list-item name="id" type="String" required="true" >}}
  The transaction ID you want to keep track of
{{< /method-list-item >}}

#### Responses

On both `fetch: true` and `listen: true` requests, _dfuse_ will stream back [TransactionLifecycle]({{< ref "../types/TransactionLifecycle" >}}) objects.

Commit message:

added aliases on most pages and much more
too many changes to list here, mostly a big ethereum page settings overhaul and added aliases for all pages that will need to redirect when the new docs come online

content/eosio/public-apis/reference/websocket/req-get-transaction-lifecycle.md, after:

---
weight: 40
#same weight for all pages in this section to auto-order them A->Z
pageTitle: get_transaction_lifecycle
pageTitleIcon: eosio

sideNav: true
sideNavTitle: Public APIs
sideNavLinkRename: get_transaction_lifecycle

BookToC: true
release: stable

aliases:
  - /reference/eosio/websocket/req-get-transaction-lifecycle/

---

Retrieve a "transaction_lifecycle" (when "fetch" is true) and follow
its life-cycle (when "listen" is true).

## Usage

When following a transaction, any new block referencing that transaction
will trigger an updated version of "transaction_lifecycle" to be sent.
When one of those blocks passes irreversibility, you will also receive
an updated transaction_lifecycle object.

Example request:

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "type": "get_transaction",
  "fetch": true,
  "listen": true,
  "data": {
    "id": "da1abcf7e205cf410c35ba3d474fd8d854a7513d439f7f1188d186493253ed24"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

#### Arguments

{{< method-list-item name="id" type="String" required="true" >}}
  The transaction ID you want to keep track of
{{< /method-list-item >}}

#### Responses

On both `fetch: true` and `listen: true` requests, _dfuse_ will stream back [TransactionLifecycle]({{< ref "../types/TransactionLifecycle" >}}) objects.
