content/eosio/public-apis/getting-started/get-your-free-api-key.md, before:

---
weight: 20

pageTitle: Get Your Free API Key
pageTitleIcon: dfuse

sideNav: true
sideNavTitle: Public APIs
sideNavLinkRename: Get Your Free API Key

BookToC: true
#release: stable

---

## 1. Create a free dfuse account

Visit our self-service portal {{< external-link href="https://app.dfuse.io">}} to create an account.

## 2. Create an API key

Go to {{< external-link href="https://app.dfuse.io/keys">}} to create your first api key.

![](/img/api_key_creation.png)

To create a new API key for your application:

* **API Key Name**: Identifies the purpose of your key in the portal.
* Category:
  - **Web**: You want to embed your API key in the client-side of a web application. Specify your website as the origin {{< external-link title="as it will appear in the HTTP header" href="https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6454#section-7">}}
  - **Mobile**: You want to embed your API key in a mobile application deployed on an app store.
  - **Server**: You want to connect your server backend directly with our service.

## 3. Get a short-lived JWT

Once you have this API key, call the `https://auth.dfuse.io/v1/auth/issue` endpoint to obtain a fresh authentication token using the following command. **Do not forget to replace the API key by your own!**

{{< tabs "issuing-long-jwt">}}
{{< tab title="Request" lang="shell" >}}
curl https://auth.dfuse.io/v1/auth/issue -s --data-binary '{"api_key":"web_abcdef12345678900000000000"}'
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab title="Response" lang="json" >}}
{
  "token":"eyJhbGciOiJLTVNFUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJleHAiOjE1NTYxMzI4MjAsImp0aSI6IjQwNWVmOTUxLTAwZTYtNGJmNC1hZWMxLTU0NTU1ZWMzMTUwMiIsImlhdCI6MTU1NjA0NjQyMCwiaXNzIjoiZGZ1c2UuaW8iLCJzdWIiOiJ1aWQ6MHdlbnU2NmUwNzU4OWRhODY4MWNlIiwiYWtpIjoiM2NhYWEzYzA3M2FlZjVkMmYxOGUwNjJmZDkzYzg3YzMzYWIxYzA1YzEzNjI3NjU2OTgzN2Y5NDc5NzZlMjM0YSIsInRpZXIiOiJmcmVlLXYxIiwic3RibGsiOi0zNjAwLCJ2IjoxfQ.000HeTujIuS_LRvvPN6ZRCmtoZqZyV6P1enNBviwK8v7Tf7BLHJIrEpQoEREKSIMdZWPrMQl_OE55yJP0MxUDA",
  "expires_at":1556132820
}
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## 4. What's next?

* [Review Authentication Guide]({{< ref "../concepts/authentication" >}})

Commit message:

added aliases on most pages and much more
too many changes to list here, mostly a big ethereum page settings overhaul and added aliases for all pages that will need to redirect when the new docs come online

content/eosio/public-apis/getting-started/get-your-free-api-key.md, after:

---
weight: 20

pageTitle: Get Your Free API Key
pageTitleIcon: dfuse

sideNav: true
sideNavTitle: Public APIs
sideNavLinkRename: Get Your Free API Key

BookToC: true
#release: stable

aliases:
  - /guides/eosio/getting-started/how-to-work-with-your-free-account/

---

## 1. Create a free dfuse account

Visit our self-service portal {{< external-link href="https://app.dfuse.io">}} to create an account.

## 2. Create an API key

Go to {{< external-link href="https://app.dfuse.io/keys">}} to create your first api key.

![](/img/api_key_creation.png)

To create a new API key for your application:

* **API Key Name**: Identifies the purpose of your key in the portal.
* Category:
  - **Web**: You want to embed your API key in the client-side of a web application. Specify your website as the origin {{< external-link title="as it will appear in the HTTP header" href="https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6454#section-7">}}
  - **Mobile**: You want to embed your API key in a mobile application deployed on an app store.
  - **Server**: You want to connect your server backend directly with our service.

## 3. Get a short-lived JWT

Once you have this API key, call the `https://auth.dfuse.io/v1/auth/issue` endpoint to obtain a fresh authentication token using the following command. **Do not forget to replace the API key by your own!**

{{< tabs "issuing-long-jwt">}}
{{< tab title="Request" lang="shell" >}}
curl https://auth.dfuse.io/v1/auth/issue -s --data-binary '{"api_key":"web_abcdef12345678900000000000"}'
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab title="Response" lang="json" >}}
{
  "token":"eyJhbGciOiJLTVNFUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJleHAiOjE1NTYxMzI4MjAsImp0aSI6IjQwNWVmOTUxLTAwZTYtNGJmNC1hZWMxLTU0NTU1ZWMzMTUwMiIsImlhdCI6MTU1NjA0NjQyMCwiaXNzIjoiZGZ1c2UuaW8iLCJzdWIiOiJ1aWQ6MHdlbnU2NmUwNzU4OWRhODY4MWNlIiwiYWtpIjoiM2NhYWEzYzA3M2FlZjVkMmYxOGUwNjJmZDkzYzg3YzMzYWIxYzA1YzEzNjI3NjU2OTgzN2Y5NDc5NzZlMjM0YSIsInRpZXIiOiJmcmVlLXYxIiwic3RibGsiOi0zNjAwLCJ2IjoxfQ.000HeTujIuS_LRvvPN6ZRCmtoZqZyV6P1enNBviwK8v7Tf7BLHJIrEpQoEREKSIMdZWPrMQl_OE55yJP0MxUDA",
  "expires_at":1556132820
}
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## 4. What's next?

* [Review Authentication Guide]({{< ref "../concepts/authentication" >}})
