content/eosio/admin-guide/partial_sync.md, before:

---
weight: 130
title: Partial Sync
release: alpha
---

# Partial synchronisation of Kylin testnet's head using dfuse for EOSIO

## Requirements

* A working `dfuseeos` command and nodeos installed with 'deep-mind' patch (see https://github.com/dfuse-io/dfuse-eosio/blob/develop/DEPENDENCIES.md#dfuse-instrumented-eosio-prebuilt-binaries)

## Get a clean workspace folder, fetch a Kylin snapshot (using EOS Nation snapshots as a source in this example)

{{< highlight sh >}}
mkdir workspace && cd workspace
curl -L -o kylin-snapshot.bin.zst https://snapshots.eosnation.io/kylin/latest
zstd -d kylin-snapshot.bin.zst
{{< /highlight >}}

**Note** On Ubuntu, `zstd` CLI decompression tool can be obtain with `sudo apt-get install -y zstd`, otherwise, can be downloaded from https://github.com/facebook/zstd/releases.

## Prepare {workspace}/kylin-phase1-blocks.yaml

### Required information
* `mindreader-snapshot-store-url: file:///{Current working directory}`
  * Folder where you downloaded the snapshot (output of command `pwd` in your shell)

### Example kylin-phase1-blocks.yaml

{{< highlight yaml >}}
start:
  args:
  - mindreader
  flags:
    log-to-file: false
    mindreader-log-to-zap: false
    mindreader-start-failure-handler: true
    mindreader-blocks-chan-capacity: 100000
    mindreader-restore-snapshot-name: snapshot.bin
    mindreader-snapshot-store-url: file:///home/johndoe/workspace
    mindreader-batch-mode: true
{{< /highlight >}}

## Prepare mindreader nodeos config

{{< highlight sh >}}
# from {workspace}
mkdir mindreader
cat >mindreader/config.ini <<EOC
# Plugins
plugin = eosio::producer_plugin      # for state snapshots
plugin = eosio::producer_api_plugin  # for state snapshots
plugin = eosio::chain_plugin
plugin = eosio::chain_api_plugin
plugin = eosio::http_plugin
plugin = eosio::db_size_api_plugin
plugin = eosio::net_api_plugin

# Chain
chain-state-db-size-mb = 4096
reversible-blocks-db-size-mb = 512
max-transaction-time = 5000

read-mode = head
p2p-accept-transactions = false
api-accept-transactions = false

# P2P
agent-name = dfuse for EOSIO (mindreader)
p2p-server-address = 127.0.0.1:9877
p2p-listen-endpoint = 127.0.0.1:9877
p2p-max-nodes-per-host = 2
connection-cleanup-period = 60

# HTTP
access-control-allow-origin = *
http-server-address = 127.0.0.1:9888
http-max-response-time-ms = 1000
http-validate-host = false
verbose-http-errors = true

# Enable deep mind
deep-mind = true
contracts-console = true

wasm-runtime = eos-vm-jit
eos-vm-oc-enable = true
eos-vm-oc-compile-threads = 4

## Peers (choose your favorite ones, those are from https://github.com/cryptokylin/CryptoKylin-Testnet/blob/master/config/peer-config.ini)
p2p-peer-address = peer.kylin.alohaeos.com:9876
p2p-peer-address = p2p.kylin.helloeos.com.cn:9876
p2p-peer-address = kylin-testnet.starteos.io:9876
p2p-peer-address = kylin-fn001.eossv.org:443
p2p-peer-address = testnet.zbeos.com:9876
p2p-peer-address = kylin.eosrio.io:39876
EOC

{{< /highlight >}}

## Run 'phase1-blocks'

{{< highlight sh >}}
dfuseeos -c kylin-phase1-blocks.yaml start -v
{{< /highlight >}}

* You can see the 'actual' progress of block files being written by running this command from another terminal: `ls -ltr dfuse-data/storage/merged-blocks/ |tail`
* From different terminal sessions, you can run the "search" and "trxdb" phases in parallel with this phase. They will wait for merged block files to be created.
* Once the mindreader instance reaches the head block, it can be manually stopped.  A `mindreader-stop-block-num` but keep in mind the head block moves (60 * 60 * 24 * 2) 172,800 blocks per day.
See next steps in this document.

KNOWN ISSUES:

* The mindreader writes merged block files SLOWER than the nodeos instance can catch up. This means that it will keep going for a while after the "stop block" appears in the logs. Do not worry and do not try to force kill the dfuseeos instance! Let it continue until it finishes.
* Since the nodeos will go further than the requested "stop block", all extra blocks will be written to the 'dfuse-data/storage/one-blocks` folder, so that the `merger` can pick them up on the next run.


## 'phase1-search' (can be done in parallel with phase1)

### Required information
* `search-indexer-start-block: {500 blocks higher than first merged block file, rounded to the next 'shard-size'}`
  * Take that bluck number `ls  ./dfuse-data/storage/merged-blocks/ |head -n 1` and add 500 to it
* `search-indexer-stop-block: {100 below the value that you put in for mindreader-stop-block-num earlier, rounded to the lower 'shard-size'}`

### Example kylin-phase1-search.yaml

{{< highlight yaml >}}
start:
  args:
  - search-indexer
  flags:
    config-file: ""
    log-to-file: false
    search-indexer-enable-batch-mode: true
    search-indexer-start-block: 107305500
    search-indexer-stop-block: 107366500
    search-indexer-shard-size: 500
{{< /highlight >}}

### Run 'phase1-search'

{{< highlight sh >}}
dfuseeos -c kylin-phase1-search.yaml start  -vv
{{< /highlight >}}

NOTE: the 'actual' start block that you can use afterwards will most likely be the one that you set here in 'search-indexer'

## 'phase1-trxdb' (can be done in parallel with phase1)

### Required information
* `trxdb-loader-start-block-num: {500 blocks higher than first merged block file}`
  * Take that bluck number `ls  ./dfuse-data/storage/merged-blocks/ |head -n 1` and add 500 to it
* `trxdb-loader-stop-block-num: {100 below the value that you put in for mindreader-stop-block-num earlier}`
* `common-chain-id: 5fff1dae8dc8e2fc4d5b23b2c7665c97f9e9d8edf2b6485a86ba311c25639191`
  * change this if you are syncing another chain than kylin, could be scripted like this `curl -s https://kylin.eos.dfuse.io/v1/chain/get_info | sed 's/.*chain_id...\([a-f0-9]*\).*/\1/'` or with better tools like 'jq'

### Example kylin-phase1-trxdb.yaml

{{< highlight yaml >}}
start:
  args:
  - trxdb-loader
  flags:
    config-file: ""
    log-to-file: false
    common-chain-id: 5fff1dae8dc8e2fc4d5b23b2c7665c97f9e9d8edf2b6485a86ba311c25639191
    trxdb-loader-start-block-num: 107305400
    trxdb-loader-stop-block-num: 107366900
    trxdb-loader-processing-type: batch
{{< /highlight >}}

### Run 'phase1-trxdb'

{{< highlight sh >}}
dfuseeos -c kylin-phase1-trxdb.yaml start  -vv
{{< /highlight >}}

KNOWN ISSUES:
* It's currently hard to follow the progress and not have too many logs

## Run kylin-phase2 (syncing up to head)

### Example kylin-phase2.yaml
{{< highlight yaml >}}
start:
  args:
  - search-archive
  - search-router
  - search-indexer
  - search-live
  - dashboard
  - dgraphql
  - apiproxy
  - mindreader
  - merger
  - relayer
  - trxdb-loader
  - blockmeta
  flags:
    config-file: ""
    log-to-file: false
    mindreader-log-to-zap: true
    common-chain-id: 5fff1dae8dc8e2fc4d5b23b2c7665c97f9e9d8edf2b6485a86ba311c25639191
    search-indexer-shard-size: 500
    search-indexer-start-block: 107305500
    search-archive-shard-size: 500
    search-archive-start-block: 107305500
    blockmeta-eos-api-upstream-addr: https://kylin.eos.dfuse.io
{{< /highlight >}}

### Known Issues

* You may see some warnings like this: `found a hole in a oneblock files`, sometimes they are false positive. Watch the progression of merged-blocks in the folder like this: `ls  ./dfuse-data/storage/merged-blocks/ |tail -n 1` to make sure that the merger keeps going correctly
* EOSQ will not work correctly without "eosws", "fluxdb", "abicodec", which do not support 'partial chain syncing' at the moment. You will need to sync the full chain to get that.

### Watch as the chain syncs its missing part up to the head

* dashboard: http://localhost:8081

### Play with search and block functions in the synced range

* graphiql: http://localhost:8080/graphiql

* examples queries:
  * query block: http://localhost:8080/graphiql/?query=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&variables=ewogICJibG9ja051bSI6IDEwNzMwNTUwMAp9
  * stream search: show actions other than `onblock`: http://localhost:8080/graphiql/?query=c3Vic2NyaXB0aW9uICgkcXVlcnk6IFN0cmluZyEsICRjdXJzb3I6IFN0cmluZykgewogIHNlYXJjaFRyYW5zYWN0aW9uc0ZvcndhcmQocXVlcnk6ICRxdWVyeSwgY3Vyc29yOiAkY3Vyc29yKSB7CiAgICB1bmRvCiAgICBjdXJzb3IKICAgIHRyYWNlIHsKICAgICAgYmxvY2sgewogICAgICAgIG51bQogICAgICAgIGlkCiAgICAgICAgY29uZmlybWVkCiAgICAgICAgdGltZXN0YW1wCiAgICAgICAgcHJldmlvdXMKICAgICAgfQogICAgICBpZAogICAgICBtYXRjaGluZ0FjdGlvbnMgewogICAgICAgIGFjY291bnQKICAgICAgICBuYW1lCiAgICAgICAganNvbgogICAgICAgIHNlcQogICAgICAgIHJlY2VpdmVyCiAgICAgIH0KICAgIH0KICB9Cn0K&variables=ewogICJxdWVyeSI6ICItYWN0aW9uOm9uYmxvY2siLAogICJjdXJzb3IiOiAiIgp9

Commit message:

rm flags, add no block/snapshot, add detail stop block

content/eosio/admin-guide/partial_sync.md, after:

---
weight: 130
title: Partial Sync
release: alpha
---

# Partial synchronisation of Kylin testnet's head using dfuse for EOSIO

## Requirements

* A working `dfuseeos` command and nodeos installed with 'deep-mind' patch (see https://github.com/dfuse-io/dfuse-eosio/blob/develop/DEPENDENCIES.md#dfuse-instrumented-eosio-prebuilt-binaries)

## Get a clean workspace folder, fetch a Kylin snapshot (using EOS Nation snapshots as a source in this example)

{{< highlight sh >}}
mkdir workspace && cd workspace
curl -L -o kylin-snapshot.bin.zst https://snapshots.eosnation.io/kylin/latest
zstd -d kylin-snapshot.bin.zst
{{< /highlight >}}

**Note** On Ubuntu, `zstd` CLI decompression tool can be obtain with `sudo apt-get install -y zstd`, otherwise, can be downloaded from https://github.com/facebook/zstd/releases.

## Prepare {workspace}/kylin-phase1-blocks.yaml

### Required information
* `mindreader-snapshot-store-url: file:///{Current working directory}`
  * Folder where you downloaded the snapshot (output of command `pwd` in your shell)

### Example kylin-phase1-blocks.yaml

{{< highlight yaml >}}
start:
  args:
  - mindreader
  flags:
    log-to-file: false
    mindreader-log-to-zap: false
    mindreader-start-failure-handler: true
    mindreader-blocks-chan-capacity: 100000
    mindreader-restore-snapshot-name: snapshot.bin
    mindreader-snapshot-store-url: file:///home/johndoe/workspace
    mindreader-batch-mode: true
    mindreader-no-blocks-log: true
{{< /highlight >}}

## Prepare mindreader nodeos config

{{< highlight sh >}}
# from {workspace}
mkdir mindreader
cat >mindreader/config.ini <<EOC
# Plugins
plugin = eosio::producer_plugin      # for state snapshots
plugin = eosio::producer_api_plugin  # for state snapshots
plugin = eosio::chain_plugin
plugin = eosio::chain_api_plugin
plugin = eosio::http_plugin
plugin = eosio::db_size_api_plugin
plugin = eosio::net_api_plugin

# Chain
chain-state-db-size-mb = 4096
reversible-blocks-db-size-mb = 512
max-transaction-time = 5000

read-mode = head
p2p-accept-transactions = false
api-accept-transactions = false

# P2P
agent-name = dfuse for EOSIO (mindreader)
p2p-server-address = 127.0.0.1:9877
p2p-listen-endpoint = 127.0.0.1:9877
p2p-max-nodes-per-host = 2
connection-cleanup-period = 60

# HTTP
access-control-allow-origin = *
http-server-address = 127.0.0.1:9888
http-max-response-time-ms = 1000
http-validate-host = false
verbose-http-errors = true

# Enable deep mind
deep-mind = true
contracts-console = true

wasm-runtime = eos-vm-jit
eos-vm-oc-enable = true
eos-vm-oc-compile-threads = 4

## Peers (choose your favorite ones, those are from https://github.com/cryptokylin/CryptoKylin-Testnet/blob/master/config/peer-config.ini)
p2p-peer-address = peer.kylin.alohaeos.com:9876
p2p-peer-address = p2p.kylin.helloeos.com.cn:9876
p2p-peer-address = kylin-testnet.starteos.io:9876
p2p-peer-address = kylin-fn001.eossv.org:443
p2p-peer-address = testnet.zbeos.com:9876
p2p-peer-address = kylin.eosrio.io:39876
EOC

{{< /highlight >}}

## Run 'phase1-blocks'

{{< highlight sh >}}
dfuseeos -c kylin-phase1-blocks.yaml start -v
{{< /highlight >}}

* You can see the 'actual' progress of block files being written by running this command from another terminal: `ls -ltr dfuse-data/storage/merged-blocks/ |tail`
* From different terminal sessions, you can run the "search" and "trxdb" phases in parallel with this phase. They will wait for merged block files to be created.
* Once the mindreader instance reaches the head block, it can be manually stopped.  A `mindreader-stop-block-num` may be set, but keep in mind the head block moves (60 seconds * 60 minutes * 24 hours * 2 500ms block times) 172,800 blocks per day.
See next steps in this document.

KNOWN ISSUES:

* The mindreader writes merged block files SLOWER than the nodeos instance can catch up. This means that it will keep going for a while after the "stop block" appears in the logs. Do not worry and do not try to force kill the dfuseeos instance! Let it continue until it finishes.
* Since the nodeos will go further than the requested "stop block", all extra blocks will be written to the 'dfuse-data/storage/one-blocks` folder, so that the `merger` can pick them up on the next run.


## 'phase1-search' (can be done in parallel with phase1)

### Required information
* `search-indexer-start-block: {500 blocks higher than first merged block file, rounded to the next 'shard-size'}`
  * Take that bluck number `ls  ./dfuse-data/storage/merged-blocks/ |head -n 1` and add 500 to it
* `search-indexer-stop-block: {100 below the value that you put in for mindreader-stop-block-num earlier, rounded to the lower 'shard-size'}`

### Example kylin-phase1-search.yaml

{{< highlight yaml >}}
start:
  args:
  - search-indexer
  flags:
    config-file: ""
    log-to-file: false
    search-indexer-enable-batch-mode: true
    search-indexer-start-block: 107305500
    search-indexer-stop-block: 107366500
    search-indexer-shard-size: 500
{{< /highlight >}}

### Run 'phase1-search'

{{< highlight sh >}}
dfuseeos -c kylin-phase1-search.yaml start  -vv
{{< /highlight >}}

NOTE: the 'actual' start block that you can use afterwards will most likely be the one that you set here in 'search-indexer'

## 'phase1-trxdb' (can be done in parallel with phase1)

### Required information
* `trxdb-loader-start-block-num: {500 blocks higher than first merged block file}`
  * Take that bluck number `ls  ./dfuse-data/storage/merged-blocks/ |head -n 1` and add 500 to it
* `trxdb-loader-stop-block-num: {100 below the value that you put in for mindreader-stop-block-num earlier}`
* `common-chain-id: 5fff1dae8dc8e2fc4d5b23b2c7665c97f9e9d8edf2b6485a86ba311c25639191`
  * change this if you are syncing another chain than kylin, could be scripted like this `curl -s https://kylin.eos.dfuse.io/v1/chain/get_info | sed 's/.*chain_id...\([a-f0-9]*\).*/\1/'` or with better tools like 'jq'

### Example kylin-phase1-trxdb.yaml

{{< highlight yaml >}}
start:
  args:
  - trxdb-loader
  flags:
    config-file: ""
    log-to-file: false
    common-chain-id: 5fff1dae8dc8e2fc4d5b23b2c7665c97f9e9d8edf2b6485a86ba311c25639191
    trxdb-loader-start-block-num: 107305400
    trxdb-loader-stop-block-num: 107366900
    trxdb-loader-processing-type: batch
{{< /highlight >}}

### Run 'phase1-trxdb'

{{< highlight sh >}}
dfuseeos -c kylin-phase1-trxdb.yaml start  -vv
{{< /highlight >}}

KNOWN ISSUES:
* It's currently hard to follow the progress and not have too many logs

## Run kylin-phase2 (syncing up to head)

### Example kylin-phase2.yaml
{{< highlight yaml >}}
start:
  args:
  - search-archive
  - search-router
  - search-indexer
  - search-live
  - dashboard
  - dgraphql
  - apiproxy
  - mindreader
  - merger
  - relayer
  - trxdb-loader
  - blockmeta
  flags:
    log-to-file: false
    mindreader-log-to-zap: true
    search-indexer-shard-size: 500
    search-indexer-start-block: 107305500
    search-archive-shard-size: 500
    search-archive-start-block: 107305500
    blockmeta-eos-api-upstream-addr: https://kylin.eos.dfuse.io
    mindreader-auto-snapshot-modulo: 1000000
{{< /highlight >}}

### Known Issues

* You may see some warnings like this: `found a hole in a oneblock files`, sometimes they are false positive. Watch the progression of merged-blocks in the folder like this: `ls  ./dfuse-data/storage/merged-blocks/ |tail -n 1` to make sure that the merger keeps going correctly
* EOSQ will not work correctly without "eosws", "fluxdb", "abicodec", which do not support 'partial chain syncing' at the moment. You will need to sync the full chain to get that.

### Watch as the chain syncs its missing part up to the head

* dashboard: http://localhost:8081

### Play with search and block functions in the synced range

* graphiql: http://localhost:8080/graphiql

* examples queries:
  * query block: http://localhost:8080/graphiql/?query=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&variables=ewogICJibG9ja051bSI6IDEwNzMwNTUwMAp9
  * stream search: show actions other than `onblock`: http://localhost:8080/graphiql/?query=c3Vic2NyaXB0aW9uICgkcXVlcnk6IFN0cmluZyEsICRjdXJzb3I6IFN0cmluZykgewogIHNlYXJjaFRyYW5zYWN0aW9uc0ZvcndhcmQocXVlcnk6ICRxdWVyeSwgY3Vyc29yOiAkY3Vyc29yKSB7CiAgICB1bmRvCiAgICBjdXJzb3IKICAgIHRyYWNlIHsKICAgICAgYmxvY2sgewogICAgICAgIG51bQogICAgICAgIGlkCiAgICAgICAgY29uZmlybWVkCiAgICAgICAgdGltZXN0YW1wCiAgICAgICAgcHJldmlvdXMKICAgICAgfQogICAgICBpZAogICAgICBtYXRjaGluZ0FjdGlvbnMgewogICAgICAgIGFjY291bnQKICAgICAgICBuYW1lCiAgICAgICAganNvbgogICAgICAgIHNlcQogICAgICAgIHJlY2VpdmVyCiAgICAgIH0KICAgIH0KICB9Cn0K&variables=ewogICJxdWVyeSI6ICItYWN0aW9uOm9uYmxvY2siLAogICJjdXJzb3IiOiAiIgp9
