content/guides/core-concepts/cursors.md, before:

---
weight: 30
title: Cursors
---

## All About Cursor
<!--
Describe what a cursor is in other database technologies, link Wikipedia, etc..
Its use as a pointer in an interrupted search query.
Describe how it applies to our technology, where it's used:
  * In search,
-->
A cursor is a control structure that enables traversal over records. Cursors facilitate subsequent processing of the traversal. It is akin to programming language concept of iterator. Cursors are a core concept within the dfuse ecosystem and is heavily used in dfuse Search.

Besides pagination, cursors are instrumental when using subscriptions to deal with network disconnections. By using the cursor of your last successful request, you can reconnect and continue streaming without missing any documents. 

We have a designed our cursor as an opaque structure that enables your query to sequential process the rows in your result set. This design gives us flexibility that if the pagination model changes in the future, the cursor format will remain the same.

## In search

Our cursor is a chain-wide cursor. In other words it points to a specific transaction within a block, within a range. This allows to display results by pagionation or stream from that specific point in both directions. In addition the cursor is fork aware. If the paginated query of stream return a transaction that was forked, you will be notified that said transaction is forked via the `undo` field.

<!--
Insert JC Diagram
-->

## Pagination in Ethereum
<!--

* In general, we also use cursors in Connection objects in GraphQL
* Describe the general principles we use in our design.
* Link to Facebook's doc, and link to Pagination/Connection article in this section.

-->

In a GrapQL query, the connection model provides a standard mechanism for slicing and paginating the result set. In the response, the connection model provides a standard way of providing cursors, and a way of telling the client when more results are available.

It is important to note that not all GraphQL query return connection model, only the ones that require pagination support. Our [`searchTransations`](/reference/ethereum/graphql/#query-searchtransactions") is a good example of a paginated query.

A Connection types must have fields named `edges` and `pageInfo`: 

* `egdes`: returns a list of `edge_type`; each `edge_type` will have a `node` field which contains an object of the query and a `cursor` to reference that specific `node`. In the `searchTransations` query the `node` are of type `TransactionTrace`.
* `pageInfo`: contains a `startCursor` and `endCursor` which corresponds to the first and last nodes in the `edges` respectively.

Consider the following example:

{{< tabs "graphql-cursor" >}}
{{< tab lang="graphql" title="GraphQL Response" >}}
{
  "data": {
    "searchTransactions": {
      "edges": [
        {
          "cursor": "A110RysJ6aB9YyWsFvipofe7LJ4wA11rUwHiI0VFg4vw83fBiJqjVjcmOkiGkP311Ry5SVqkj97LRiwu85JT74e5xuttviNuT3t_k9_vqrO-e6f3OAwcJO42VeiMYYzYW2mCYQr_Lw==",
          "node": {
            "__typename": "TransactionTrace",
            "hash": "0x223d30ee304e8632b33f14b05e9d8793963b22719469b2795ff569e5e8acc811",
            "from": "0x1e63a6146c8fa1a43964af901cb42aa48debc2b1",
            "to": "0x06012c8cf97bead5deae237070f9587f8e7a266d"
          }
        },
        {
          "cursor": "bN1XxBvXCvlSTgCcckQWz_e7LJ4wA11rUwHiI0VFg4vw83fBiJqjVjcmOkiGkP311Ry5SVqkj97LRiwu85JT74e5xuttviNuT3t_k9_vqrO-e6f3OAwcJO42VbzaNtvdCm_XYAz9fA==",
          "node": {
            "__typename": "TransactionTrace",
            "hash": "0xfdd36ac026664fb75d3c90384f439a79a739a39acc382b026e09d530a3f1e72a",
            "from": "0x7891f796a5d43466fc29f102069092aef497a290",
            "to": "0x06012c8cf97bead5deae237070f9587f8e7a266d"
          }
        },
        {
          "cursor": "J_uTbOh4N4wUR42TNx344ve7LJ4wA11rVwGzLUdFgt_09iTB3cmhAWQnPBzRk_iijkHjGFKs29abQXd_9pQBvNLtlrti7SM_EHssxt-9-OXoLKD1OVwaeLgwVe6MZdyIU23RawOpKw==",
          "node": {
            "__typename": "TransactionTrace",
            "hash": "0x4274c8a699bacdb11b89e12c95176696f4228095be311deec5bf167946540e35",
            "from": "0xe6f8c575965d478fe98f4e9af91e0e1bbd03d6fa",
            "to": "0xb1690c08e213a35ed9bab7b318de14420fb57d8c"
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab lang="graphql" title="GraphQL Request" >}}
query {
  searchTransactions(indexName:CALLS query: "to:0x06012c8cf97BEaD5deAe237070F9587f8E7A266d", sort: DESC, limit: 3) {
    edges {
      cursor
      node {
        __typename
        hash
        from
        to
      }
    }
  }
}
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}
      
In this example `searchTransactions` returns a collection of 3 `edges`, each one pointing to a `node` of type `TransactionTrace` with specific attributes. Furthermore, each `edge` as a `cursor` which is a `pointer` to that specific `node`, in our case, that specific `TransactionTrace.

The second transaction trace (with hash `0x223d30e....`)  of the collection has a cursor pointer of 

`A110RysJ6aB9YyWsFvipofe7LJ4wA11rUwHiI0VFg4vw83fBiJqjVjcmOkiGkP311Ry5SVqkj97LRiwu85JT74e5xuttviNuT3t_k9_vqrO-e6f3OAwcJO42VeiMYYzYW2mCYQr_Lw==`

Thus if you were to run the same query with this`cursor` value, you would get the subsequent transaction trace: `0x4274c8a699bacdb11b89e12c95176696f4228095be311deec5bf167946540e35`

{{< tabs "graphql-cursor-2" >}}
{{< tab lang="graphql" title="GraphQL Response" >}}
{
  "data": {
    "searchTransactions": {
      "edges": [
        {
          "cursor": "J_uTbOh4N4wUR42TNx344ve7LJ4wA11rVwGzLUdFgt_09iTB3cmhAWQnPBzRk_iijkHjGFKs29abQXd_9pQBvNLtlrti7SM_EHssxt-9-OXoLKD1OVwaeLgwVe6MZdyIU23RawOpKw==",
          "node": {
            "__typename": "TransactionTrace",
            "hash": "0x4274c8a699bacdb11b89e12c95176696f4228095be311deec5bf167946540e35",
            "from": "0xe6f8c575965d478fe98f4e9af91e0e1bbd03d6fa",
            "to": "0xb1690c08e213a35ed9bab7b318de14420fb57d8c"
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab lang="graphql" title="GraphQL Request" >}}
query {
  searchTransactions(indexName:CALLS query: "to:0x06012c8cf97BEaD5deAe237070F9587f8E7A266d", sort: DESC, limit: 1,cursor: "bN1XxBvXCvlSTgCcckQWz_e7LJ4wA11rUwHiI0VFg4vw83fBiJqjVjcmOkiGkP311Ry5SVqkj97LRiwu85JT74e5xuttviNuT3t_k9_vqrO-e6f3OAwcJO42VbzaNtvdCm_XYAz9fA==") {
    edges {
      cursor
      node {
        __typename
        hash
        from
        to
      }
    }
  }
}

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Commit message:

Updated WebSocket API docs and cursors section
The WebSocket API section has been fully revamped. Now pointing user to the GraphQL API
instead. Most of the concepts have been moved to the `WebSocket API` root page directly.

This have the benefits that we can directly list available streams under `WebSocket API`
menu.

Other places where we now push hard for GraphQL with advantages. Also, added quick
instructions on how to convert old code to new one.

content/guides/core-concepts/cursors.md, after:

---
weight: 30
title: Cursors
---

## All About Cursor

A cursor is a control structure that enables traversal over records. Cursors facilitate subsequent processing of the traversal. It is akin to programming language concept of iterator. Cursors are a core concept within the dfuse ecosystem and is heavily used in dfuse Search.

Besides pagination, cursors are instrumental when using subscriptions to deal with network disconnections. By using the cursor of your last successful request, you can reconnect and continue streaming without missing any documents.

We have designed our cursor as an opaque but data rich structure that enables your query to sequentially process the rows in your result set. This design gives us flexibility that if the pagination model changes in the future, the cursor format will remain compatible.

### Features

#### Precise

Our cursor is a chain-wide cursor. In other words they point to an exact location within a stream of documents returned to you by
one of our API. For example, in a search stream, it's the last transaction sent, in a most recents block query, it's the last block of the page. This idea of a cursor can they be used in different context.

- When iterating through results of a paginated query, simply return us your last seen cursor and we will give you the next page.
- When streaming results to you via GraphQL subscription, keep you last seen cursor and when the stream disconnect for any reason, simply send us back you last seen cursor and we will start back at the exact location where you left.

#### Fork Aware

In addition, all of our cursor are fork aware (where it makes sense). They know the exact branching where you are and able to
determine if the block was forked. In this eventuality, we notify you about this.

<!--
Insert JC Diagram
-->

## GraphQL Query Pagination
<!--

* In general, we also use cursors in Connection objects in GraphQL
* Describe the general principles we use in our design.
* Link to Facebook's doc, and link to Pagination/Connection article in this section.

-->

{{< alert type="note" >}}
This pagination is currently only implemented in the Ethereum GraphQL schema. We will slowly rolls this pagination
pattern to all our GraphQL schema and it will be a dfuse wide concept.
{{</ alert >}}

In a GraphQL query, the connection model provides a standard mechanism for slicing and paginating the result set. In the response, the connection model provides a standard way of providing cursors, and a way of telling the client when more results are available.

It is important to note that not all GraphQL query return connection model, only the ones that require pagination support. Our [`searchTransations`](/reference/ethereum/graphql/#query-searchtransactions") query for Ethereum is a good example of a paginated query.

A `Connection` type must have fields named `edges` and `pageInfo`:

* `egdes`: returns a list of `<EdgeType>`; each specific `<EdgeType>` will have a `node` field which contains result element of the query and a `cursor` to reference that specific `node`. For example, In the [`searchTransations`](/reference/ethereum/graphql/#query-searchtransactions") query the `node` are of type [`TransactionTrace`](/reference/ethereum/graphql/#query-transactiontrace".
* `pageInfo`: contains a `startCursor` and `endCursor` which corresponds to the first and last nodes in the `edges` respectively.

Consider the following example (Ethereum):

{{< tabs "graphql-cursor" >}}
{{< tab lang="graphql" title="GraphQL Response" >}}
{
  "data": {
    "searchTransactions": {
      "edges": [
        {
          "cursor": "A110RysJ6aB9YyWsFvipofe7LJ4wA11rUwHiI0VFg4vw83fBiJqjVjcmOkiGkP311Ry5SVqkj97LRiwu85JT74e5xuttviNuT3t_k9_vqrO-e6f3OAwcJO42VeiMYYzYW2mCYQr_Lw==",
          "node": {
            "__typename": "TransactionTrace",
            "hash": "0x223d30ee304e8632b33f14b05e9d8793963b22719469b2795ff569e5e8acc811",
            "from": "0x1e63a6146c8fa1a43964af901cb42aa48debc2b1",
            "to": "0x06012c8cf97bead5deae237070f9587f8e7a266d"
          }
        },
        {
          "cursor": "bN1XxBvXCvlSTgCcckQWz_e7LJ4wA11rUwHiI0VFg4vw83fBiJqjVjcmOkiGkP311Ry5SVqkj97LRiwu85JT74e5xuttviNuT3t_k9_vqrO-e6f3OAwcJO42VbzaNtvdCm_XYAz9fA==",
          "node": {
            "__typename": "TransactionTrace",
            "hash": "0xfdd36ac026664fb75d3c90384f439a79a739a39acc382b026e09d530a3f1e72a",
            "from": "0x7891f796a5d43466fc29f102069092aef497a290",
            "to": "0x06012c8cf97bead5deae237070f9587f8e7a266d"
          }
        },
        {
          "cursor": "J_uTbOh4N4wUR42TNx344ve7LJ4wA11rVwGzLUdFgt_09iTB3cmhAWQnPBzRk_iijkHjGFKs29abQXd_9pQBvNLtlrti7SM_EHssxt-9-OXoLKD1OVwaeLgwVe6MZdyIU23RawOpKw==",
          "node": {
            "__typename": "TransactionTrace",
            "hash": "0x4274c8a699bacdb11b89e12c95176696f4228095be311deec5bf167946540e35",
            "from": "0xe6f8c575965d478fe98f4e9af91e0e1bbd03d6fa",
            "to": "0xb1690c08e213a35ed9bab7b318de14420fb57d8c"
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab lang="graphql" title="GraphQL Request" >}}
query {
  searchTransactions(indexName:CALLS, query: "to:0x06012c8cf97BEaD5deAe237070F9587f8E7A266d", sort: DESC, limit: 3) {
    edges {
      cursor
      node {
        __typename
        hash
        from
        to
      }
    }
  }
}
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

In this example `searchTransactions` returns a collection of 3 `edges`, each one pointing to a `node` of type `TransactionTrace` with specific attributes. Furthermore, each `edge` as a `cursor` which is a `pointer` to that specific `node`, in our case, that specific `TransactionTrace.

The second transaction trace (with hash `0x223d30e....`)  of the collection has a cursor pointer of

`A110RysJ6aB9YyWsFvipofe7LJ4wA11rUwHiI0VFg4vw83fBiJqjVjcmOkiGkP311Ry5SVqkj97LRiwu85JT74e5xuttviNuT3t_k9_vqrO-e6f3OAwcJO42VeiMYYzYW2mCYQr_Lw==`

Thus if you were to run the same query with this`cursor` value, you would get the subsequent transaction trace: `0x4274c8a699bacdb11b89e12c95176696f4228095be311deec5bf167946540e35`

{{< tabs "graphql-cursor-2" >}}
{{< tab lang="graphql" title="GraphQL Response" >}}
{
  "data": {
    "searchTransactions": {
      "edges": [
        {
          "cursor": "J_uTbOh4N4wUR42TNx344ve7LJ4wA11rVwGzLUdFgt_09iTB3cmhAWQnPBzRk_iijkHjGFKs29abQXd_9pQBvNLtlrti7SM_EHssxt-9-OXoLKD1OVwaeLgwVe6MZdyIU23RawOpKw==",
          "node": {
            "__typename": "TransactionTrace",
            "hash": "0x4274c8a699bacdb11b89e12c95176696f4228095be311deec5bf167946540e35",
            "from": "0xe6f8c575965d478fe98f4e9af91e0e1bbd03d6fa",
            "to": "0xb1690c08e213a35ed9bab7b318de14420fb57d8c"
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab lang="graphql" title="GraphQL Request" >}}
query {
  searchTransactions(indexName:CALLS query: "to:0x06012c8cf97BEaD5deAe237070F9587f8E7A266d", sort: DESC, limit: 1,cursor: "bN1XxBvXCvlSTgCcckQWz_e7LJ4wA11rUwHiI0VFg4vw83fBiJqjVjcmOkiGkP311Ry5SVqkj97LRiwu85JT74e5xuttviNuT3t_k9_vqrO-e6f3OAwcJO42VbzaNtvdCm_XYAz9fA==") {
    edges {
      cursor
      node {
        __typename
        hash
        from
        to
      }
    }
  }
}

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}
