content/guides/authentication.md, before:

---
layout: docs
type: single
weight: 2
---

# Authentication

There are two sorts of keys in the dfuse ecosystem:

1. A long-lived API key, which will resemble `server_abcdef123123123000000000000000000`, used to generate short-lived <a href="https://jwt.io/" title="JSON Web Tokens">JWT</a>.
2. A short-lived JWT, used when performing any call on the dfuse Platform, which will resemble: `eyJhbGciOiJLTVNFUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJleHAiOjE1NTYxMzI4MjAsImp0aSI6IjQwNWVmOTUxLTAwZTYtNGJmNC1hZWMxLTU0NTU1ZWMzMTUwMiIsImlhdCI6MTU1NjA0NjQyMCwiaXNzIjoiZGZ1c2UuaW8iLCJzdWIiOiJ1aWQ6MHdlbnU2NmUwNzU4OWRhODY4MWNlIiwiYWtpIjoiM2NhYWEzYzA3M2FlZjVkMmYxOGUwNjJmZDkzYzg3YzMzYWIxYzA1YzEzNjI3NjU2OTgzN2Y5NDc5NzZlMjM0YSIsInRpZXIiOiJmcmVlLXYxIiwic3RibGsiOi0zNjAwLCJ2IjoxfQ.000HeTujIuS_LRvvPN6ZRCmtoZqZyV6P1enNBviwK8v7Tf7BLHJIrEpQoEREKSIMdZWPrMQl_OE55yJP0MxUDA`

## Obtaining a Long-Lived API Key

Once you have created an account through the <a href="https://app.dfuse.io" title="dfuse API Portal">dfuse portal</a> you will be able to obtain an API key. 

Click on "GENERATE NEW KEY" and you'll now be able to start customizing your key for your specific needs.
First assign the API key a name so that you'll be able to differentiate it from other API keys that you generate.
Then, select the key-type between `mobile`, `web`, or `server`.
  * `Mobile` - adaptive rate limiting to ensure abuse prevention. The rate limiting thresholds will eventually be controllable by yourself. `Mobile` can handle a large number of IPs, with more granular rate limiting by IP.
  * `Web` - adaptive rate limiting to ensure abuse prevention. The rate limiting thresholds will eventually be controllable by yourself. JWTs generated by a `Web` key will be scoped to a small number of IPs, with heavy limiting of calls per IP. `Web` keys will have their `Origin header` verified to help with abuse prevention.
  * `Server` - Should be used for server-to-server data access. Aggressive rate limiting for JWT issuance, as the generated tokens should be cached and used for their lifespan. Accepts a large number of calls per IP.
  
For ease of identification, all keys will be prefixed by their key type. `Mobile` and `web` keys are safe to publish within your mobile or web application.

## Obtaining a Short-Lived JWT

Once you have this API key, call the [`https://auth.dfuse.io/v1/auth/issue` endpoint](#post-v1-auth-issue) to obtain a fresh Authentication Token using the following command. **Do not forget to replace the API key by your own!**

{{< tabs "issuing-long-jwt">}}
{{< tab title="Request" lang="shell" >}}
curl https://auth.dfuse.io/v1/auth/issue -s --data-binary '{"api_key":"web_abcdef12345678900000000000"}'
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab title="Response" lang="json" >}}
{       
  "token":"eyJhbGciOiJLTVNFUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJleHAiOjE1NTYxMzI4MjAsImp0aSI6IjQwNWVmOTUxLTAwZTYtNGJmNC1hZWMxLTU0NTU1ZWMzMTUwMiIsImlhdCI6MTU1NjA0NjQyMCwiaXNzIjoiZGZ1c2UuaW8iLCJzdWIiOiJ1aWQ6MHdlbnU2NmUwNzU4OWRhODY4MWNlIiwiYWtpIjoiM2NhYWEzYzA3M2FlZjVkMmYxOGUwNjJmZDkzYzg3YzMzYWIxYzA1YzEzNjI3NjU2OTgzN2Y5NDc5NzZlMjM0YSIsInRpZXIiOiJmcmVlLXYxIiwic3RibGsiOi0zNjAwLCJ2IjoxfQ.000HeTujIuS_LRvvPN6ZRCmtoZqZyV6P1enNBviwK8v7Tf7BLHJIrEpQoEREKSIMdZWPrMQl_OE55yJP0MxUDA",
  "expires_at":1556132820
}
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Our `client-JS` library will handle the token issuance and caching for you if you decide to utilize it. You can also consult a <a href="https://github.com/dfuse-io/client-js/blob/master/examples/reference/auth-issue.ts" title="JWT Issuance Example">working reference example</a> if you would like to follow along with some sample TypeScript code.

{{< tip >}}
To learn more about JWTs, you can consult <https://jwt.io/introduction/>.
{{< /tip >}}

Each JWT is **valid for a period of 24 hours**. Make sure to cache those values to avoid hitting rate limiting on JWT issuance. A connection will be validated upon a valid connection being made and will not need to be reauthenticated until a new connection needs to be reestablished. 

## Lifecycle of Short-Lived JWTs

Each JWT has an expiration date, so it is important to take that into account before making a request to the dfuse APIs. Here is the recommended procedure to take before making a request:

1. Retrieve the JWT, and examine it's expiration time
1. If the JWT is past its expiration time, is near expiration, or is absent from cache, fetch a new one through the `/v1/auth/issue` endpoint, and cache the response.
1. Call _dfuse_ with the valid JWT token.

Each time you get a fresh JWT, it contains the updated expiration time and the token itself.

{{< tip >}}
Reminder: Once a connection is established, it will not be closed if the JWT expires during the session.
{{< /tip >}}

## REST Authentication

To achieve authentication over REST, specify the `Authorization: Bearer [token]` header in the HTTP request. See [more details](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Authorization).

{{< tabs "rest-auth" >}}
{{< tab lang="shell" >}}
eosc -H "Authorization: Bearer YOURTOKENHERE" -u https://mainnet.eos.dfuse.io [ ... ]
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Don't forget to replace the token in the above command with a valid JWT, retrieved using [`/v1/auth/issue`]({{< ref "/reference/eosio/rest/auth-issue-intro" >}})

## WebSocket Authentication

This example uses the <https://github.com/hashrocket/ws> command-line WebSocket program. To authenticate with query string, use this code:

{{< tabs "websocket-auth" >}}
{{< tab lang="shell" >}}
ws -o https://b2b.dfuse.io wss://mainnet.eos.dfuse.io/v1/stream?token=YOURTOKENHERE
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

With browser-based WebSocket connections, it is not possible to specify additional headers. In this situation, pass your JWT as the `token` query string parameter.

You can pass the `token` query string parameter to authenticate REST or WebSocket requests.

## The `Origin` Header

When the `Origin` header is present in a WebSocket connection, it must match the `origin` provided in your API header key.

An `Origin` HTTP request header (ex. `Origin: https://yourcompany.com`) is **mandatory** when initiating a WebSocket connection. A `403` error will be returned otherwise.

The `Origin` header will be enforced on all `web` keys. As the `Origin` header becomes enforced, it will need to match the origin you registered along with your API key identity.

## GraphQL Authentication

Using the [apollo-client](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/) websocket protocol, the `INIT` message should contain an `Authorization` key, with the same format as the REST authentication (bearer token).

When doing `POST` calls to the `/graphql` endpoint, you must specify the `Authorization` header, exactly like any other REST calls.

## GraphQL over gRPC Authentication

Using the language of your choice, use the `OAuth2` authentication method with gRPC. Set the `OAuth2 Access Token` to be your JWT, and if required, specify `Bearer` as the method, then proceed normally. This will set the `authorization` gRPC header, similiar to the HTTP header of the same name.

Commit message:

fix wrong EOS websocket origin header requirement

content/guides/authentication.md, after:

---
layout: docs
type: single
weight: 2
---

# Authentication

There are two sorts of keys in the dfuse ecosystem:

1. A long-lived API key, which will resemble `server_abcdef123123123000000000000000000`, used to generate short-lived <a href="https://jwt.io/" title="JSON Web Tokens">JWT</a>.
2. A short-lived JWT, used when performing any call on the dfuse Platform, which will resemble: `eyJhbGciOiJLTVNFUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJleHAiOjE1NTYxMzI4MjAsImp0aSI6IjQwNWVmOTUxLTAwZTYtNGJmNC1hZWMxLTU0NTU1ZWMzMTUwMiIsImlhdCI6MTU1NjA0NjQyMCwiaXNzIjoiZGZ1c2UuaW8iLCJzdWIiOiJ1aWQ6MHdlbnU2NmUwNzU4OWRhODY4MWNlIiwiYWtpIjoiM2NhYWEzYzA3M2FlZjVkMmYxOGUwNjJmZDkzYzg3YzMzYWIxYzA1YzEzNjI3NjU2OTgzN2Y5NDc5NzZlMjM0YSIsInRpZXIiOiJmcmVlLXYxIiwic3RibGsiOi0zNjAwLCJ2IjoxfQ.000HeTujIuS_LRvvPN6ZRCmtoZqZyV6P1enNBviwK8v7Tf7BLHJIrEpQoEREKSIMdZWPrMQl_OE55yJP0MxUDA`

## Obtaining a Long-Lived API Key

Once you have created an account through the <a href="https://app.dfuse.io" title="dfuse API Portal">dfuse portal</a> you will be able to obtain an API key. 

Click on "GENERATE NEW KEY" and you'll now be able to start customizing your key for your specific needs.
First assign the API key a name so that you'll be able to differentiate it from other API keys that you generate.
Then, select the key-type between `mobile`, `web`, or `server`.
  * `Mobile` - adaptive rate limiting to ensure abuse prevention. The rate limiting thresholds will eventually be controllable by yourself. `Mobile` can handle a large number of IPs, with more granular rate limiting by IP.
  * `Web` - adaptive rate limiting to ensure abuse prevention. The rate limiting thresholds will eventually be controllable by yourself. JWTs generated by a `Web` key will be scoped to a small number of IPs, with heavy limiting of calls per IP. `Web` keys will have their `Origin header` verified to help with abuse prevention.
  * `Server` - Should be used for server-to-server data access. Aggressive rate limiting for JWT issuance, as the generated tokens should be cached and used for their lifespan. Accepts a large number of calls per IP.
  
For ease of identification, all keys will be prefixed by their key type. `Mobile` and `web` keys are safe to publish within your mobile or web application.

## Obtaining a Short-Lived JWT

Once you have this API key, call the [`https://auth.dfuse.io/v1/auth/issue` endpoint](#post-v1-auth-issue) to obtain a fresh Authentication Token using the following command. **Do not forget to replace the API key by your own!**

{{< tabs "issuing-long-jwt">}}
{{< tab title="Request" lang="shell" >}}
curl https://auth.dfuse.io/v1/auth/issue -s --data-binary '{"api_key":"web_abcdef12345678900000000000"}'
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab title="Response" lang="json" >}}
{       
  "token":"eyJhbGciOiJLTVNFUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJleHAiOjE1NTYxMzI4MjAsImp0aSI6IjQwNWVmOTUxLTAwZTYtNGJmNC1hZWMxLTU0NTU1ZWMzMTUwMiIsImlhdCI6MTU1NjA0NjQyMCwiaXNzIjoiZGZ1c2UuaW8iLCJzdWIiOiJ1aWQ6MHdlbnU2NmUwNzU4OWRhODY4MWNlIiwiYWtpIjoiM2NhYWEzYzA3M2FlZjVkMmYxOGUwNjJmZDkzYzg3YzMzYWIxYzA1YzEzNjI3NjU2OTgzN2Y5NDc5NzZlMjM0YSIsInRpZXIiOiJmcmVlLXYxIiwic3RibGsiOi0zNjAwLCJ2IjoxfQ.000HeTujIuS_LRvvPN6ZRCmtoZqZyV6P1enNBviwK8v7Tf7BLHJIrEpQoEREKSIMdZWPrMQl_OE55yJP0MxUDA",
  "expires_at":1556132820
}
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Our `client-JS` library will handle the token issuance and caching for you if you decide to utilize it. You can also consult a <a href="https://github.com/dfuse-io/client-js/blob/master/examples/reference/auth-issue.ts" title="JWT Issuance Example">working reference example</a> if you would like to follow along with some sample TypeScript code.

{{< tip >}}
To learn more about JWTs, you can consult <https://jwt.io/introduction/>.
{{< /tip >}}

Each JWT is **valid for a period of 24 hours**. Make sure to cache those values to avoid hitting rate limiting on JWT issuance. A connection will be validated upon a valid connection being made and will not need to be reauthenticated until a new connection needs to be reestablished. 

## Lifecycle of Short-Lived JWTs

Each JWT has an expiration date, so it is important to take that into account before making a request to the dfuse APIs. Here is the recommended procedure to take before making a request:

1. Retrieve the JWT, and examine it's expiration time
1. If the JWT is past its expiration time, is near expiration, or is absent from cache, fetch a new one through the `/v1/auth/issue` endpoint, and cache the response.
1. Call _dfuse_ with the valid JWT token.

Each time you get a fresh JWT, it contains the updated expiration time and the token itself.

{{< tip >}}
Reminder: Once a connection is established, it will not be closed if the JWT expires during the session.
{{< /tip >}}

## REST Authentication

To achieve authentication over REST, specify the `Authorization: Bearer [token]` header in the HTTP request. See [more details](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Authorization).

{{< tabs "rest-auth" >}}
{{< tab lang="shell" >}}
eosc -H "Authorization: Bearer YOURTOKENHERE" -u https://mainnet.eos.dfuse.io [ ... ]
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Don't forget to replace the token in the above command with a valid JWT, retrieved using [`/v1/auth/issue`]({{< ref "/reference/eosio/rest/auth-issue-intro" >}})

## WebSocket Authentication

This example uses the <https://github.com/hashrocket/ws> command-line WebSocket program. To authenticate with query string, use this code:

{{< tabs "websocket-auth" >}}
{{< tab lang="shell" >}}
ws -o https://b2b.dfuse.io wss://mainnet.eos.dfuse.io/v1/stream?token=YOURTOKENHERE
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

With browser-based WebSocket connections, it is not possible to specify additional headers. In this situation, pass your JWT as the `token` query string parameter.

You can pass the `token` query string parameter to authenticate REST or WebSocket requests.

## The `Origin` Header

The `Origin` header is currently not mandatory on websocket connections, as it can be a burden to implement on server side.

It will, however, become mandatory at a later date, but only for `web` keys. It will then need to match the origin that you registered along with your API key identity. In a web environment, this is usually added automatically from the client's browser without requiring extra work.

## GraphQL Authentication

Using the [apollo-client](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/) websocket protocol, the `INIT` message should contain an `Authorization` key, with the same format as the REST authentication (bearer token).

When doing `POST` calls to the `/graphql` endpoint, you must specify the `Authorization` header, exactly like any other REST calls.

## GraphQL over gRPC Authentication

Using the language of your choice, use the `OAuth2` authentication method with gRPC. Set the `OAuth2 Access Token` to be your JWT, and if required, specify `Bearer` as the method, then proceed normally. This will set the `authorization` gRPC header, similiar to the HTTP header of the same name.
